feat: Redoing home and moving getting started to actors/running and actors/development sections (#542)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/running/index.md

# Running

**In this section, you learn how to run Apify Actors using Apify Console or programmatically. You will learn about their configuration, versioning, data retention, usage, and pricing.**

---

## Run your first Apify Actor

> If you have not [built](./development) your own actor yet, then choose one from the [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store). Once you have an actor chosen, you can start it in a number of ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not yet [built](./development) your own Actor, we recommend you pick an existing one from the [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store). Once you have chosen an actor, you can start it in a number of ways.
```

> **You will need an Apify account to complete this tutorial. If you don't have one, [complete the sign-up process](https://console.apify.com/sign-up) first. Don't worry about the price - it's free.**

### 1. Choose your actor

After you sign-in to Apify Console, navigate to the [Apify Store](https://console.apify.com/store). We'll pick the [Google Search Results Scraper](https://console.apify.com/actors/nFJndFXA5zjCTuudP#/information/latest/readme):

![Apify Store](./images/store-google-search-scraper.png)

### 2. Configure it

> On the actor's page, head over to the **Input** tab. Don't be put off by all the boxes - the actor is pre-configured to run without any extra input. Just click the **Start** button in the bottom-left corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Actor's page, head over to the **Input** tab. Don't be put off by all the boxes - the Actor is pre-configured to run without any extra input. Just click the **Start** button in the bottom-left corner.
```

Alternatively, you can play around with the settings to make the results more interesting for you.

![Actor input](./images/actor-google-search-scraper-input.png)

### 3. Wait for the results

> Now the actor is running, and it will need a short time to gather the first results. Meanwhile, you can look around:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Actor might take a while to gather its first results and finish its run. Meanwhile, let's take some time to explore the platform options:
```

> - There are more tabs providing you with the info about the actor run. For example, you can see the log and its storages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There are more tabs providing you with information about the Actor run. For example, you can access the run **Log** and **Storage**.
```

# Running

**In this section, you learn how to run Apify Actors using Apify Console or programmatically. You will learn about their configuration, versioning, data retention, usage, and pricing.**

---

## Run your first Apify Actor

> Before you can run an Actor, you have to either choose one of the existing ones from the [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store) or [build your own](./development). To get started, we recommend trying out an Actor from the [Store](https://apify.com/store). Once you have chosen an Actor, you can start it in a number of ways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you can run an Actor, you have to either choose one of the existing ones from [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store) or [build your own](./development). To get started, we recommend trying out an Actor from the [Store](https://apify.com/store). Once you have chosen an Actor, you can start it in a number of ways.
```

> **You will need an Apify account to complete this tutorial. If you don't have one, [complete the sign-up process](https://console.apify.com/sign-up) first. Don't worry about the price - it's free.**

### 1. Choose your actor

> After you sign-in to Apify Console, navigate to the [Apify Store](https://console.apify.com/store). We'll pick the [Google Maps Scraper](https://console.apify.com/actors/nwua9Gu5YrADL7ZDj#/information/latest/readme):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you sign-in to Apify Console, navigate to [Apify Store](https://console.apify.com/store). We'll pick the [Google Maps Scraper](https://console.apify.com/actors/nwua9Gu5YrADL7ZDj#/information/latest/readme):
```

- At the top right, you can click on the API button to explore the related API endpoints

![Run](./images/actor-google-maps-scraper-running.png)

### 4. Get the results

Shortly you will see the first results popping up:

![Actor results](./images/actor-google-maps-scraper-results.png)

And you can use the export button at the bottom left to export the data in multiple formats:

![Export results](./images/actor-google-maps-scraper-export.png)

And that's it! Now you can get back to the Actor's input, play with it, and try out more of the [Apify Actors](https://apify.com/store) or [build your own](./development).

## Running via Apify API

Actors can also be invoked using the Apify API by sending an HTTP POST request to the [Run actor](/api/v2/#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor) endpoint, such as:

```text
https://api.apify.com/v2/acts/compass~crawler-google-places/runs?token=<YOUR_API_TOKEN>
```

An actor's input and its content type can be passed as a payload of the POST request, and additional options can be specified using URL query parameters. For more details, see the [Run actor](/api/v2/#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor) section in the API reference.

> > To learn more about this, read the [Run an actor or task and retrieve data via API](/academy/api/run-actor-and-retrieve-data-via-api) tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To learn more about this, read the [Run an Actor or task and retrieve data via API](/academy/api/run-actor-and-retrieve-data-via-api) tutorial.
```

<TabItem value="Python" label="Python">

```python
from apify_client import ApifyClient

apify_client = ApifyClient('MY-API-TOKEN')

# Start the Google Maps Scraper Actor and wait for it to finish.
actor_run = apify_client.actor('compass/crawler-google-places').call(
    run_input={ 'queries': 'apify' }
)

# Fetch scraped results from the Actor's dataset.
dataset_items = apify_client.dataset(actor_run['defaultDatasetId']).list_items().items
print(dataset_items)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> The newly started actor runs under the account associated with the provided `token`, and therefore all resources consumed are charged to this user account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The newly started Actor runs under the account associated with the provided `token`, and therefore all resources consumed are charged to this user account.
```

> Internally, the `call()` function invokes the [Run actor](/api/v2/#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor) API endpoint, waits for the actor to finish and reads its output using the [Get items](/api/v2/#/reference/datasets/item-collection/get-items) API endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Internally, the `call()` function invokes the [Run Actor](/api/v2/#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor) API endpoint, waits for the Actor to finish, and reads its output using the [Get items](/api/v2/#/reference/datasets/item-collection/get-items) API endpoint.
```
